# Severe_Thunderstorm_Climatology_2020
Python weather analysis application that compares the occurrence of severe thunderstorm activity occurring over the continental Unites States (CONUS) to daily international sunspot number measurements.

Overview: December 2019 was confirmed as the starting point of the new solar activity cycle, in which sunspot activity was observed at a 11-year minimum. Through the winter and spring seasons of 2020, sunspot number gradually increased with significant severe thunderstorm outbreaks occurring in February and April 2020.

Goals: This study investigates and derives a functional relationship (i.e., correlation) between sunspot number and severe thunderstorm activity over CONUS during the cold season, and compares to the results of previous studies, especially work as published at the Max Planck Institute.

Abstract (Motivation and Background):
The reference date and amplitudes of the minima and maxima of the 11-year solar cycle are established based on the sunspot number maintained and distributed by the SILSO World Datacenter since 1981 at the Royal Observatory of Belgium. Sunspots are dark areas that become apparent at the Sun's photosphere due to intense upward-forced magnetic flux from further within the solar interior. Heating areas along the magnetic flux in the upper photosphere and chromosphere become visible as faculae, causing cooler (7000 F), less dense, and darker areas at the core of these magnetic fields than in the surrounding photosphere (10,000 F). The resulting visible phenomenon is thus seen as sunspots. Active regions associated with sunspot groups are usually visible as bright enhancements in the corona at EUV and X-ray wavelengths.  Clette et al. (2014) provide a historical review and perspective of the development and evolution of sunspot number calculation techniques, most notably the International Sunspot Number.  Recent studies of the potential impact of sunspot activity on global weather and climate patterns have identified relationships between sunspot number and, collectively, south Asian Monsoon rainfall patterns (Rao 1976) and thunderstorm activity over central Europe (Schlegel et al. 2001). Thunderstorm outbreaks during the cold season of the year (i.e., the months of November through April) typically occur in environments with low amounts of convective available potential energy (CAPE) and solar heating of the earth's surface. Cold-season severe thunderstorms are often generated by the release of potential instability by large-scale forcing. Thus, another enhancing factor for cold-season severe thunderstorms should be explored to describe storm outbreaks on a regional scale.

Datasets:
-Storm Reports via WxData API: https://wxdata.com/api-storm-reports-explorer
-Daily sunspot number values from the Sunspot Index and Long-term Solar Observations (SILSO): http://sidc.be/silso/datafiles
-File "SN_d_tot_V2.0.txt" is available in the data folder.

Software:
Scikit-learn: https://scikit-learn.org/stable/index.html
